Hi! My name is Akshay and I’m a designer and researcher working in the area of technology and social impact. For the last year or so, I’ve been working on ideas around bringing greater participation into large development/social impact projects in India. One of the things that I found would really help this would be greater communication through stories from the grassroots workers, with each other and higher up the chain. But I found that while people have really compelling stories to tell, when we sit and chat with them, they aren’t able to communicate these in the same way using video. 

This project starts with the idea that we should give people simple templates, in an app that makes it easy for people to drop in clips and package them. Those packaged videos would make for very compelling stories, that could be very useful in various contexts such as sharing ideas for new things a grassroot worker is trying in their project with peers in other districts or states, or for citizen journalists reporting on local issues. People already have access to smartphones and the internet, and if we can create an app that runs on existing technology, and handholds the user through the process of shooting and packaging the video without too much of a learning curve, it could have a profound effect on the voices represented in various quarters. 

At the moment the project is in its nascent stages, so write to me at **akshayroongta@gmail.com** if you’d like to get involved. We’re looking for designers, developers, storytellers and organisations who might want to co-develop or deploy such an idea. 

